Mystery Recapped here. Today, I'm going to
explain a german psychological thriller film
called "Goodnight Mommy". Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care!
A family consists of a mommy and her two twins
named Lukas and Elias. They have just moved to
a new house in the middle of the forest and near
a lake. Mommy used to be a choir member who was
quite famous on local tv. One day, Lukas and
Elias play hide and seek around their house.
Realizing that their mother has returned home,
the two immediately rush to meet their mother,
but all they see is a woman with a bandage
covering almost her entire face. That woman
is their mother who had cosmetic facial surgery.
This makes Lucas and Elias quite surprised but
still obey her orders. But there is something
strange going on. Mommy only gives her attention
to Elias for no apparent reason. She provides food
and drinks only to Elias, plays only with Elias,
and only responds to Elias's words while Lucas
is ignored. Because she is still in the healing
stage, mommy also makes some new rules, such as
the house must be in a state of complete silence.
There should be no visitors, no animals, no
bringing in things from outside, the house
curtains must always be closed and they are
only allowed to play outside the house quietly.
Seeing their mother's strange behaviour, the twins
begin to suspect that beneath her bandages, their
mother may not be the same person. Mommy also acts
cruelly and lashes out at Elias physically when he
is naughty or disobedient. The boys comment that
this is something their mother would never do.
This makes Lucas and Elias even more convinced
that mommy is not their mother because their
mother would not scold them like that. In a dream
that the twins seem to share, the boys' mother
wanders into the woods in only her underwear. She
disrobes completely, then unravels her bandages.
Her head begins to spasm and spin.
The next day, Lucas and Elias deliberately
create troubles as a form of opposition. A fight
breaks out, with the twins insisting they want
their mommy back. Their mother thinks her children
have lost their minds. When Elias asserts she's
not his mom, Mommy punishes and forces him
to say ten times that she's his real mother.
She also tells him to stop talking to Lucas.
Elias becomes very sad, knowing that mommy
wants to separate the two of them. A few days
have passed. Lucas and Elias still hate mommy
and want their real mother to return soon.
Later that day, mommy wants to meet them both;
she states that she is not angry anymore. Mommy
immediately enters the room with a new face
that is not covered by bandages, but Lukas and
Elias are still not sure that she is his mother,
even after comparing her to the old photo
of her mother. Mommy gives a boomerang as a
form of apology for what has happened earlier.
Elias immediately asks mommy's permission to
play boomerang outside the house. As soon as mommy
opens the back door, the kids run for their lives.
They escape into town and eventually make their
way to an old church and ask for the priest.
The priest promises to drive them to the police
station to report the impostor posing as their
mother, but he tricks them and brings them right
back home. The priest asks the mother to explain,
but she just vaguely talks about how things
have been difficult since the accident and
the separation. Mommy returns inside but can't
find Elias or Lukas anywhere. She eventually
gives up and cries herself to sleep. That same
night, Lucas and Elias do something to mommy.
She wakes in the morning to the vision
of her twins in their homemade goblin
masks – and the realization she's bound
to the bed. The twins have tied her down,
making it impossible for her to escape. Just
then, Lucas and Elias begin to inquire about
the whereabouts of their real mother.
. She insists that she is their mother,
Lucas and Elias begin to compare
their real mother's photo with mommy.
They have a fight because Elias has started to
believe that mommy is their real mother , while
Lucas is still convinced that mommy isn't
their mother. When mommy is alone with Elias,
mommy keeps trying to convince Elias that she is
his real mother and tells Elias to let her free.
Slowly, Elias starts to cut her feet loose,
but is stopped when Lukas returns and asks
what he's doing. He demonstrates that
mommy's facial birthmark easily rubs off.
Mommy tells them that they took it off in
surgery; Elias doesn't believe it and slaps her.
That moment, Lukas and Elias ask again about his
mother's whereabouts while torturing mommy in very
unnatural ways. The torture they do is extremely
insane. Mommy is tied up on the bed for days.
She wets her bed. The twins briefly set her
free from her shackles to change the bedding.
Mommy immediately uses this opportunity to escape.
The twins, however, have set up a booby trap that
causes her to fall, knocking her unconscious.
The woman wakes glued to the living room floor.
Elias starts to burn down the house to pressure
her into telling them the truth about their
mother. Mommy, in a final bid for her life,
tells Elias she'll play along if he frees her.
She'll pretend Lukas is alive again,
make his breakfast – whatever he wants.
Then, she tearfully explains to Elias that Lukas'
death was not his fault and she begs her son to
set her free, so they can both move on from
the tragedy. Now, this is where everything is
revealed! Lukas has been dead! Lukas has
been merely a hallucination as a result
of dissociative identity disorder, as Elias is
incapable of accepting his other half's demise.
Mommy initially plays along with Elias,
acting as if Lukas was still around.
For Elias, Lukas is real, but not for Mommy.
Elias then challenges her to prove that she is
their mother by telling him what Lukas is doing.
Lukas is holding a torch near the curtain, but,
obviously, the mother can't see that. Elias
believes that his real mother could see Lukas.
He takes then the torch from Lukas and sets
the curtain aflame. The flames explode across
the living room. Soon, it engulfs Mommy
in flames. She dies a fiery death.
The movie ends with the firefighters extinguishing
the fire but arriving too late to save mommy.
The final shot of the film shows Elias
and Lukas walking through the cornfield
and emerging to be with their mother, the
three of them smiling and embracing.
And that's the ending of the
movie "Goodnight Mommy".
Now, for the explanation. The lady in the house is
the real Mother. She is not an impersonator with
devious intentions. A loving family in a beautiful
home was destroyed because of a divorce and a
son’s death. All Mommy is trying to do is get a
fresh start, and she does this by getting plastic
surgery. As part of the fresh start, Mommy also
sold the old house and move to a different place.
Mommy initially plays along with Elias,
acting as if Lukas was still around.
But she grows tired of this. It gets to a point
where she even beats and threatens Elias to stop
talking to his dead brother. Finally, at the
end of the movie, we are shown this perfect
family portrait dissolves into ashes. It’s clear
this frame is an ironic representation of how it
would have turned out without the accident
that took Lukas’s life. Elias’s whereabouts
after the fire remain a mystery.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications and leave a like to
help the channel out. Thank you for watching.